release: 0.10.0 (#3287)
rome/tools: CHANGELOG.md

# Rome changelog

### 0.10.0

### Core

- Rome is now faster and uses less memory on macOS and Linux systems! [#3237](https://github.com/rome/tools/pull/3237)

> - We completely revamped our diagnostics! These new diagnostics - the old diagnostics - allows
> use to give better information around the errors generated by Rome.

Reviewer: I don't get the `the old diagnostics` part. How about
```suggestion
- We completely revamped our diagnostics! The new diagnostics allow us to give better information about the errors generated by Rome.
```

> - Greatly increased the performance of our daemon, up to 300%! [#3151](https://github.com/rome/tools/pull/3151)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Greatly increased the performance of Rome's daemon, up to 300%! [#3151](https://github.com/rome/tools/pull/3151)
```

### Configuration

You can now ignore folders and files using the Unix shell style patterns:

```json
{
  "formatter": {
    "ignore": ["scripts/*.js"]
  },
  "linter": {
    "ignore": ["src/**.test.{ts,js}"]
  }
}
```

### Formatter

- Completely revamped how the formatter handles comments and their placement inside the code [#3277](https://github.com/rome/tools/pull/3227)

> - Better formatting for TypeScript intersection and unions [#3162](https://github.com/rome/tools/issues/3162)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improved formatting of intersection and unions types [#3162](https://github.com/rome/tools/issues/3162)
```

> - Refactored the internal representation of the formatter IR, improving performance between 3-20% [#3160](https://github.com/rome/tools/pull/3160)

Reviewer: Let's remove this as I'm likely going to regress performance :D

Reviewer: I may actually have been wrong about this one. I quickly compared the time it takes to format Rome classic with 0.9.2 and `main`:

* 0.9.2: ~1400ms
* `main` ~1000ms

That's a solid 30% improvement. 

I don't know if that may be due to the changes to the deamon (you probably no better than me). Anyway, it may after all make sense to point out the perf improvements and also include your PR changing our allocator to jemalloc

Author: In which OS did you get these numbers?

Reviewer: These numbers are from my linux machine running rome format with write on the rome classic directory

Author: Then I think it makes sense to include the change. The jemalloc PR had its most impact on macOS systems, on Linux it wasn't that evident.

> 

Reviewer: TODO: Mention impoved call chain and arguments formatting

### Linter 

> - **BREAKING CHANGE**: we completely changed how our groups are named. Some of the previous groups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **BREAKING CHANGE**: This release changes the naming of the lint rule groups with the goal to make them language agnostic and avoid confusion among users and contributors.
```
